###Stats
Stats are what gives us a measure of their ability.

###Stat Breakups
We have a few Active stats and a few passive stats : all generated by the player.

###Active Stats

Physical -- 
Deals with all the physical aspects and checks. Think about dealing damage, carrying items, throwing stuff, move sneakily or dash a certain distance.
These would be under physical. Closest comparison I think of is Strength and Agility.

Health -- 
Deals with how hearty the player is. Think about absorbing damage or being hearty, resisting diseases and poisons or general health. Boosts your Health
Points and Defence.


Mental --
Deals with the mental aspects and checks. Makes you smarter, wiser, makes you be able to think about abstarct concepts or understand complex puzzles. Closely related to Smarts, Intelligence, Cunning and Wisdom.

Social --
Deals with the social aspects and checks. Makes you charming and witty, deceptive and manipulative, great orator and leader. Closely related to Charisma, Manipulation and Appearance.


###Passive Stats

There are going to be stats that affect the player under various conditions. One of the reason, why I included this here is to serve as certain counters or 
stats that are imposed on the player. 

Things like curses come to mind when I talk about this.

###Starting stats

Each players gets by default a 4.0 on their stats placing them squarely in the average. They may also buy/sell points to configure their stats.

A player is awarded a total of 16 points to configure their PC. 

--Remember that getting 0 (anything under a 1.0) in a stat qualifies as a disability (chosen by a player).
So a player getting a 0 in mental could be either a lunatic/schizophrenic etc.

